# REDEYE

Martha was walking on top of a cliff face, the wind in her face and the sun on her back. In front of her was a long cylindrical spacecraft, jutting out from the crash site at the side of the cliff below her. It was covered with hexagonal glass windows, the entire shape bubbled out in strange directions - not aerodynamic at all. She made her decent, landing on the top of the ship - to her right was an entrance: a broken hub of glass… some sort of window.
Navigating the broken glass she landed in side - no flashlight but inside the emergency lights were a steady red. A long hallway descending deep into the mountain - side doors, broken off their hinges covered the floor. She descended into the red. The end of the tunnel was blocked off. Jammed shut by a door she couldn’t move.
To her right was a service hatch - half way down and half her size: a crawlspace for the electricals. She popped it open and a hiss of air came out - it had an odor to it: stale, damp… of dead mold and old things. She crawled in.
She was on her hands and knees - struggling to move forward: the tunnel clearly not meant for her size. The walls jutted out in strange directions from the crash - reminding her of the sliding mechanism for a drawer - only much more jagged. The red lights shown in here too - dimmer than the main passage, unable to light the dark hole in front of her.
 As she grew closer she saw the opening was a narrow spot - one she just barely fit though - beyond was a short circular room the shape of a coin. She tumbled out, hunching over doing a sort of crab walk to continue on. She heard rustling behind her. Turning, she found nothing. 
To her left was a squeak, she found it - a small rodent. How was she going to get it out? It sat on its hind legs and was a cross between a squirrel and a beaver… grey in color with extremely large eyes wider than she had ever seen. Those eyes looked at her, reflected her in them. And it scampered off, to the side of the room - there were only two exits, stacked on top of each other - the entrance she tumbled though being to one above.
She heard a noise again, behind her. Something large moving in one of the tunnels. Behind her were stacked entrances - she fell from the top one, but something was there below. A glistening black form, that hid against the busted lights. All she could tell was it was moving… toward her. She backed against the opposite side of the room. The rodent scampered away from her, then back towards here as a figure slammed into the threshold. Clawing at it, trying to get through, though it was too big. She couldn’t make it out - but it had a long row of teeth that she could see, reflecting purely the red light. It’s head couldn’t fit through the opening, and it’s tiny claw couldn’t swipe far enough to reach her. It opened its mouth - and another set of teeth reached out with an appendage in its mouth.
She stared at it, it couldn’t reach her and she could only watch. The rodent by her side was terrified, the only way out now was just above the creature - the way she had come.
Where had she seen this before? She felt a familiar tinge of nostalgia. It was on the tip of her tongue when she felt herself sliding back - through the metal. She kept falling backwards - further into the mountain. The rock twisted and became sparse - purple lightning strikes between the dust particles swirling about in the air. She twisted around to see she was heading towards a barrier of some kind - something like a soap bubble. The torrent wailed against her until she passed that threshold - then silence, as she slowly fell toward the deck of the ship below.
She angled herself to be standing when she landed. Memory flooding back into her - that she was in a dream, that she had been here before. And before her stood captain Alacira, smiling.
“First things first, put this in your ear, and think of the last place I sent you” she handed Martha a small brass… horn? She took it and did as instructed, remembering the monastery with the monks. A swirling cloud of color poured out of the horn and behind her Gerald Whitewater was there to capture that with a jar. He closed the lid - and took the horn from martha.
“Just in case we forgot something,” Gerald said. Taking both carefully while also balancing a clipboard under his arm. 
“Same timeframe as before - what was it this time?” Alacira asked.
“What?”
“What was the thing in your head posing as this time?”
“An alien” the words came to her - remembering that movie. 
Alacira nodded, moving back to the center of the ship, and Martha followed. “That thing… it’s not what you see, it’s just wearing a costume - don’t make assumptions about what’s underneath based on what it wears, where to gerald?”
Gerald stumbled about - shifting the horn and clipboard’s place. He lifted a few pages, “13,i4… you’ll have a navigator this time, make sure to stay with him - alright?” he said just as they reached the elevator.
“Navigator?” Martha asked.
“Grab the railing” Alacira said - punching in the numbers on the panel.
“He’s waiting at the entrance” Gerald said - shuffling the horn between his legs - and tucking the clipboard back under his armpit as they ascended. He placed his hand on the railing. Martha fell into the side of the elevator - Gerald reached out for her, she felt her stomach lurch at a sudden weightless sensation. The clipboard went flying to the ceiling as Gerald grabbed her hand - and placed it on the railing. She fell into him, she looked up at the clipboard to see it barreling back toward her and Gerald caught it, almost nonchilantly… almost. He caught it with his face first, then his free hand.
“What was that?”
“We had to rotate a bit, that’s what the railing is for.” he said meekly.
“Do as I say, when I say… get used to that… we don’t have time to explain everything to you… just what you need to know” the doors opened. Beyond them was a hallway stretching on into the dark like before - but was lined with a snowglobe: glowing with a faint blue static. And in front of them - off to the left, was a man she could have sworn she recognized. A tall thin man in an overcoat - rubbing the back of his head. She just couldn’t place him.
“The navigator?” she asked, he bowed.
“He doesn’t speak,” Gerald said, moving forward. He stopped at a single dark and empty snow globe, placed the horn on top of it and emptied the jar’s contents into the horn. Below the snowglobe began to glow. Looking inside she could see the monastery as it had been just before the fire.
“These are…?”
“Dreams… the last dreams someone had” Gerald said.  
“Gerald - which number?”
“Right,” he glanced back at his clipboard, “42. It’s on our right”.
They walked on, down that silent hallway, the only lights that flickering blue from the snow globes.
“I swear I know you.” Martha said, studying the tall man. He looked at her, shrugged, then looked at alacira quizzically.
“I doubt it - unless you know many coma patients?”
Martha shook her head - still staring at the navigator - who glanced uncomfortably at her. It was on the tip of her brain.
“We’re here.” Gerald said. Looking at the gold plate inlaid below. The snowglobe on the pedestal before her showed a network of twisting interlocking gears.”
“What am I looking for - another book?”
Gerald shook his head, “this one might be harder to find… we don’t exactly know this time. This isn’t going to be like your last time… this is far less solid. It’s a dream… his dream actually… so out of place things… are less out of place there…”, Gerald gestured toward the navigator who straightened his tie, “that’s why he’s going with you.”
Captain alacira studied at her pocket watch, a small crash in the distance, like thunder only deeper,  “That’s the first threshold - we can’t keep her here much longer.” Gerald nodded. “If you get in trouble: Kent here will take you back,” Gerald took her hand and placed it in Kent’s and before Martha could speak - placed it on the snow globe.  “Good luck,” was the last she heard before a feeling of cold ice permeated her skin.
***
Kent watched the evening’s flight unfold. He had seen what was on Felix’s phone - and he played along - following literally everyone else’s lead… where they were all doing the same? Was this a case of a mass confidence trick? No - this was something else… Everyone's left eye had twitched and then they donned a blank stare - when it was his turn he did the same - he was sure the other’s weren’t faking.
Felix - he learned his name - was an ass. Doing childish games with the completely docile passengers. Ordering them about for his amusement - he grew sick at some of the games - thankful he was in the back: far away from Felix. 
He had to pee, he had to sleep - and yet he could do neither without blowing his cover. His vision was blurry, and his bladder pressed at him begging for release. He wished he stopped by the restroom first thing, but… too late for that. When Felix wasn’t looking in his direction: He did an old army trick, shifting his leg over the other quietly and carefully over he squeezed them together, putting pressure where it was needed. It barely helped.
It was another hour before Felix grew uninterested - leaning his chair back to go to sleep. No one else moved a muscle. When he was sure he was asleep - Kent danced over the still passengers - as quietly as he could without releasing his bladder accidentally - and made his way back to the restroom in the back of the plane - not trusting himself to be quiet enough for the restroom in front next to felix.
Walking into coach - he saw everyone on the plane was unnaturally still. He made his way down the aisle, pretending they were normal - talking with each other, trying to anyway. When he opened the door to the bathroom he saw the staff area in the back also was completely still. He shuddered and closed the door.
While washing his hands his holster sagged just a little, he had a thought. Drying his hands - he went out into coach and started looking at the passengers, really looking at them…
Which one are you, damn it, he thought, moving slowly across the middle seats. He imagined they would be near the back, with a good view of everyone else - but frisking everyone so far yielded nothing. Methodically he made his way towards the front of the plane: looking for… his left hand left something solid underneath the jacket of the man in the window seat about half way up.
“Sorry about this,” he said, unbuttoning the sky marshal's jacket and taking the glock. “I’ll send it back…” Kent awkwardly reached around and felt at the man’s ass. There was no wallet - checking his coat next Kent found a billfold in his inner breast pocket. He snapped a picture of the license with his phone then placed it back. 
	He put the gun into his holster - then walked quietly back to first class: desperate to get some sleep… and he realized… no one had their eyes closed. Could he afford to sleep right now. No - no he could not… he sighed, and walked to the back of the plane. He was pretty sure they had coffee - or the ability to make coffee in the back of the plane.
***
Martha landed in the center of a golden metal gear. She braced her fall while the navigator slowly floated down to meet her. “Kent?” she asked, and he nodded. It came flooding back - the cop at the precinct - the one who was immune to hooks… What was he doing here?
“Why are you here?” she demanded. “Are you following me?”
He raised his hands in a confused gesture, and mimed that he wasn’t - that he just met her. He didn’t speak - not with words, but his hands, his whole body even, were excellent at conveying meaning: a regular charlie chaplin.
The floor below them twisted, all around them were spinning interlocking gears, fading into blackness, there was no obvious light source, just a faint glow all around that grew dimmer with distance. Martha regained her balance while Kent - or the navigator - just stood there easily keeping his.
He gestured with his head, she should follow him, as he walked off to the edge of the gear. Just after where it connected much larger perpendicular gear, he looked back with an expectant look. “Where are we going?” she asked. He mimed out his death, then stepped over the ledge - bending down 90 degrees to stand on the edge of the giant gear.
	Martha went to the edge of the gear, Kent walking slowly back toward where the teeth met - waiting for her. Here goes nothing, she thought, following Kent’s leap over the edge - she felt herself falling forward, not downward, and soon found herself on top of the teeth… and then just as quickly on the underside of the gear. Kent held out his hand over the side - and helped her slide back onto the teeth.
Standing up, the gear jolted again, backwards toward interlocking teeth. She lost her balance and fell forward - her feet were just under where the gears met, not crushed, but by just the barest amount. She had to wait to pull them out, then herself up with Kent’s helping hand.
Kent dusted himself off, and with a more urgent tilt of the head - mined: hurry up, that’s only going to get worse. A part of Martha was amazed at how well he communicated - without using words.
They made their way along the edge - until they met another gear on the other side - this one mostly facing to their right. With a skip and a hop Kent jumped just so - and landed on that gear’s teeth. With his hand out and some prep time Martha made the jump. 
When she landed Kent more urgently ran - Martha in tow. A moment later the gears skipped backwards again, and this time Martha saw a ripple in the other gears around her - a wavelike effect that gave her some warning. “What’s causing that?” Martha asked after it passed. Kent only mimed things breaking down, breaking apart.
They made their way through the gears - each slip getting more jarring - causing the gears to fall farther back. He did say it would get worse. One of the gears to her left started flying toward her - twisting in the air. Kent jumped at her - and knocked her to the backside of the gear, opposite where the one flying at her would hit. A resounding ringing echoed against her skin - the metal below her vibrated and all around her gears started twisting… no they were stationary: she - this one was coming loose. 
Kent pulled her to her feet and they ran across the flat to the nearest connected gear. Kent - still holding her hand, and now her back - jumped for the face of that gear. They landed in an awkward roll, the wind knocked out of Martha. She looked back to where they had just been only to see darkness, she heard loud clattering from below… well - to her left now, but she was sure that was down at this point.
Kent got up, and helped her to her feet - inspecting her for any damage. He mimed looking at a watch and tilted his head more urgently. He ran - looking back as Martha started forward to match his pace. 
She felt something - a dread she remembered from a distant dream. A prickeling on the back of the neck. Not wanting to turn around, not wanting to face it she caught up to Kent, who just jumped onto another gear’s teeth. “I think it’s here,” Martha said.
Kent nodded, pointed to his eye, then behind her. Then waved her forward. She jumped and landed where he was. They were running now and Martha noticed the wave of gears slipping, she stopped while Kent did not. He fell sideways, falling onto the flat of the gear and kept sliding - grabbing the thin metal rod at the center of the gear to keep from going over the edge.
He clung to that twisting rod, just taking a moment to breathe. He Looked up at Martha - then down below him… he started inching his way toward a gear further up that pole - one he could land on.
“I’ll come get you!” Martha said - and he raised one hand to stop her. And Martha stopped in her tracks. She watched him make his way to the safe landing. 
[‘Why didn’t he twist onto the face? She wondered - was he in danger?’, ‘oh shit, there’s that thing’]
Below… Kent was a dark figure with a tail - on all fours climbing the gears towards them - the alien… no - she reminded herself - that’s only a mask. A very convincing mask, she shuddered - she hated that movie… well: the second one with how they put people in those nests.
Kent dropped down with a thud. He brushed himself off. “Keep going, it’s behind you” Martha cried out. Kent looked behind him - seeing the thing only a few gears away. He rushed toward the side. Twisting onto the teeth, and making his way back toward her.
Martha could only watch - the alien was closing in - he wasn’t going to make it. She saw the ripple of gears around her - “ripple!” she shouted - and Kent held onto the gear. The thing was right behind him, the gear flung back and the alien’s tail caught in the gears behind it. It cried out in a shrieking hiss. The metal itself hissed and fumed loudly as the acid poured down over it.
Kent got to his feet and ran. The gears slowly released the alien just as Kent rushed up to her, carefully moved past her - and took the lead again. They would never out run the creature again. The tail of the creature leaked acid, causing smoke to rise up each time it dropped onto the gears. 
Martha noticed another ripple, she shouted and they both took cover. The alien was thrown off the same way Kent had been a moment earlier. It however - instead of crossing onto the adjacent gear - started climbing back up the face of this gear.
Kent took her hand and they jumped across onto the face of the gear. This one was lit differently, bluer - lighter… She looked up to see a lack of any more gears to the left and right - a solitary one above her connected to the same metal rod in the center of this gear. All around her were stained glass windows.
He took off his jacket - gave it to her, then took off his shirt, wrapping it around the rod - and tying it to his wrists. He sat down with his legs crossed around the pillar and hugged it - suddenly he was pulled against it - and started climbing. 
She did the same with the jacket - the sleeves just long enough to tie in a knot around her arms. She crossed her legs around the pillar and started making her way to the top when her gravity shifted. 
The alien - the thing, landed on the gear where they just were. There was a loud clattering, and she felt the pole she was climbing spin violently; the gear below coming loose. It gave way into the darkness just as a claw grabbed the rod. It’s gravity had not changed and it was struggling to hold on. To her right she saw a tooth from the gear above her fall - it grazed the creature’s claw. Spilling acid blood that dripped onto the metal rod. As it climbed, pieces fell away - leaving only it’s two front claws any purchase to keep climbing.
 Martha kept moving as she looked down, slowly growing the distance between them and the thing below. They reached the top gear, sliding onto it. Kent motioned to follow and he and Martha wrapped around the edge to the top.
A small marble laid at the center, faintly glowing. A cat’s eye which caught the light as it spun in a small recess at the center of the gear, it glowed brighter and the gear began to spin. Martha was spun nearly to the edge. At her foot another tooth fell - she looked around - only three were left - scattered across the perimeter.
She rushed to the center and grabbed the marble. That’s what she was here for - that’s the only thing that didn’t fit. Inspecting it she couldn’t find anything out of the ordinary with it - other than it’s glow.
She rolled it in her hand and there… that same kind of symbol - different but undulating and twisting the same way as the one in the book. But her hand was too small to make it out… she bent down to roll it across the ground, but before she could - the ground lurched beneath her feet - the marble slipped from her hand.
Kent with one hand grabbed the marble and with the other grabbed Martha's shirt. He was on the other side of the center and together they stayed close. Ahead of her - she saw another tooth fall.
“Roll it to me” she said, going to near the edge, “quickly” he complied and she watched it roll, the shape inside - barely even inside twisted and morphed through a repeating pattern that burned in her brain - it was circular, the pattern repeated itself, a story she didn’t understand repeated over and over - as old as time itself.
She caught the marble, rushing back toward the center. In front of her she saw a claw reach over the edge of the gear - sizzling the metal beneath it.
“We have to go now, how do we get out of here?” she asked - nodding behind her.
Kent looked around - reached out his hand - and nodded his head toward the edge of the gear. Another lurching threw them both towards the creature - not directly at it: off to it’s side. They rolled over the edge and felt gravity shift as they landed on the bear gear - where teeth used to be.
Martha saw the creature look at them, then shimmy over toward them. They rolled back onto the top of the gear, almost out of it’s reach - it grabbed Kent’s face - with the cut hand. Acid poured onto him and he let out a silent scream. She pulled him away and dabbed at his face with the jacket she still had tied to her arms. Most of it was gone now but the damage done - his face horribly ruined - his panic shock kept him from moving quickly. The creature was climbing up now and she dragged him over to the other side of the small gear. 
She felt the lurch again and she jumped with all her strength - with Kent… the navigator in tow. She flew over the edge just as the alien climbed fully atop the gear. She fell - down, there were no more gears - just remnants of where they once had been, a few golden rods jutted out from the falls, just narrowly missing them. They continued to fall into the blackness, down below where there were no more rods. And she noticed a flicker of purple in the background.
The darkness faded into a misty grey. Twisting about her as a mist - the storm growing. Thunder echoed all around her in the distance and lightning struck just a few feet away from them - it crackled and made all the hair on her skin stand up - and a ringing in her ears. 
They fell through the barrier - silence engulfed them. Kent wasn’t moving - she was still holding on tight to him. They landed on the deck of the ship. Captain alacira standing there. Whitewater behind her. Martha knelt over Kent. “he’s hurt,” he didn’t get up… he didn’t move.
Alacira rushed over - and moved her out of the way. “We got it from here.” She shouted for a medic and someone came in - a doctor with a big black purse - the kind from Victorian times - bent over to see Kent - pushing Martha back onto her feet.
“Did you get it?” she asked, looking back up at Martha, who nodded. grabbing hold of the marble in her pocket - she handed it to Alacira who inspected it. “Good job… He’ll be fine.” she looked behind her and nodded, “send her back” Martha turned around.
Behind her was a giant tribal mask. Shaking back and forth - behind it was Gerald’s voice going “uhh ga booga booga!” startling her awake. 
The plane was landing.
