# DO COMPUTERS THINK, DO THEY HAVE AN EXPERIANCE?

the short answer: I think maybe...

the question of if computers think I first came across in the movie Return to OZ, where Tic-Tok, the mechanical man, often wound down and couldn't move, or talk or even think based on the three wind of gears on his bulbus brass back (which he inconvinently can't reach). his thinking could wind down and he would give irellevent commands to make a flying gump couch... okay it was a weird movie - and that's just a drop in the bucket.
back on track - Tic-Tok often claimed he wasn't alive... but since the age of 6 (when I saw that movie) I had my doubts he spoke for all mechanical men (I had seen mister Data on star trek TNG shortly since then). What was the difference between the people around me: and a simulocrum that mimicked perfectly the people around me. would I be able to tell a robot if I saw one. (I was a dumb kid and assumed Terminator tech was just around the corner).
Tic-Toc claimed he was both not alive, but needed to wind up this thinking, if thinking wasn't living... if not I think therefor I am, then what? If thinking isn't the qualifier for life - what is? or did the movie just get that wrong... (probably).
A thinking being is a living being. you don't have to be thinking to be living, but if you are thinking - you are living. but that's besides the point. the real question is: do computers have an experiance. what is an experiance? blue, the smell of fresh cut grass... an experiance is some input - processed, not the input itself, translated into something we understand.
take the color green for example: when a wavelength of light hits your eye... no part of that light touches your brain... first - it's translated via a chemical reaction in your eye, then transmitted along the optic nerve, then projected into the back part of your brain (and upside down) where various neurons send out chemicals in some coordinated fashion to make you 'see' green. 
every computer has a processor, we have one called a brain, most computers have a cpu: a processor... does a processor experiance the inputs from the mouse and keyboard? - when a webcam is on - does the processor experiance the inputs of the webcam? to both of those questions I say: maybe experiance is the word to use. after all: it's just electricty - electro-chemical or a/c.
